---
title: 'Blog 1: Ethical Frameworks'
date: 2025-09-16
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Ethics
  - AI
  - Military 
---

Robot dogs evolving into military defense equipment!!

**News Article:**  
[Robot dogs armed with AI-aimed rifles undergo US Marines Special Ops evaluation](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/05/robot-dogs-armed-with-ai-targeting-rifles-undergo-us-marines-special-ops-evaluation/)

I chose this article because I want to join the Military and advancing AI is a big step for many countries. AI is already a powerful tool around the world. Reading about the growth of combat assets compliments what I want to do in the military alongside computer science and AI.


The main point of ethical concern has to do with the availability of these AI-armed dogs. Equipment can be bought for as little as $1500, so making sure it is in the right hands is crucial. The article states that police departments are considering using this equipment against suspects. Additionally, the concern that this equipment will become more autonomous over time has risen. Making sure these ethical concerns are addressed between police authorities and government agencies will be crucial to the process of these machines.

Stakeholders - Government agencies, police authorities, the public, U.S. Military.
Roles- For Police authorities and the U.S. Military their role includes using AI to assist in combat ethically. This allows less peoples lives to be put in danger. The general public's role is not engaging in this equipment and letting authorities control these machines. Government agencies create laws and regulations for these AI dogs so that all combat is done with reason and ethically

Ethical concerns - For the Government, police authorities and the U.S. Military the ethical concern deals with the growth of AI and these weapons becoming autonomous. Specifically for law makers, the concern may deal with these laws being broken and restrictions not being followed in war and on the street. Additionally, the public may try and get a hold of this equipment as well as AI dogs becoming unmanned and harming innocent people.

Ethical Frameworks - Human Rights. Will AI dogs violate civil rights? "Right Action" ensures human lives aren't put at risk and no discrimination takes place. "Wrong Action" Inflicting unjust harm on individuals. Ethical framework #2: Accountability, certain actions have consequences and everyone should be liable if involved in unethical practices. Who is responsible for unethical decisions across the board? "Right Action", Transparency with the public and holding each other accountable for mistakes. "Wrong Action" Keeping information private that affects the general public and not having repercussions for unethical decisions.


Reflecting on this exercise, I liked reading about AI dogs and how they can positively impact our military and U.S. government.On the flipside, mentioning concerns is important because all factors have to be considered when dealing with high tech equipment, especially ones that are very powerful.


